It’s Time to Automate Your IT
Ecosystem
IT organizations are under tremendous pressure to work more
efficiently, decrease operating costs, drive innovation, and
contribute more to defining and executing overarching company
strategies. However, the day-to-day logistics of IT operations often
stand in the way of such transformational change, burdening IT
staff with time-consuming, mundane, and error-prone work.Contents

03 Introduction
04 Why automate with UiPath Automation Platform?
07 Green IT
08 What can you automate with UiPath?
09 Automation in action: how IT teams use UiPath
10 Expand your automation infrastructure
11 How to get started on IT automation with UiPath
12 References

Introduction Impact of Covid-19
and Remote Work*
Traditionally, IT teams have relied on the knowledge and experience of their
employees to ensure systems and applications work as required. However, 37%
as technology has grown more complex and support workloads have
increased, IT operations teams have struggled to keep pace. The COVID-19
pandemic also introduced new challenges—increasing the pressure for IT to
work more efficiently, decrease operating costs, and drive innovation. Increase in overall
The UiPath Platform for the fully automated enterprise can take over the IT Workload
onerous jobs that dominate so much of daily IT work. Robotic process
automation (RPA) frees IT operations staff to support the business at a
strategic level and add value in other ways. Organizations that implement a
comprehensive, open RPA platform as the foundation can also more quickly 66%
and securely expand their automation use across the enterprise, unlocking
RPA’s full potential to lower operating costs, integrate existing systems,
and improve the bottom line. The paper focuses specifically on how
organizations can use RPA and artificial intelligence (AI) to achieve these Increase in
benefits within the scope of IT operations. Security Issues

39%
Increase in ITSM
Issues & Requests

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 2Major obstacles stand in the way of IT innovation,
optimization
IT organizations face a number of pressing challenges that prevent them from
achieving cost savings, efficiency, performance, and strategic goals. However,
RPA and AI can help address these concerns, paving the way for IT departments
to work more effectively and efficiently.

Resources tied up in infrastructure and system
maintenance
Perhaps the most immediate obstacle is the constant demand
to maintain foundational IT infrastructure and ensure that all
business systems continue to operate normally on a daily basis.
The amount of time, energy, and resources devoted to “keeping
the lights on” often precludes investments in other solutions
that could improve IT operations and business outcomes.
According to Deloitte, IT departments, on average, spend
more than half of their budgets (56%) solely on maintaining
current business processes. With so many resources tied up in
those tasks, there’s little room in IT budgets to invest in more
innovative solutions that could improve internal processes and
reshape IT organizations.
Manual, error-prone tasks
Another major drain on IT resources is the sheer abundance
of routine jobs that require manual work and are prone to
human error. Such time-intensive tasks overwhelm IT staff and
prevent them from taking on more strategic, value-driven work.
In addition, correcting manual errors requires even more time
from process and workflow stakeholders, exacerbating this
issue further.
Existing legacy automations may present inefficiencies,
as well, if they are not properly managed. For instance, IT
teams often write process scripts in silos, which prevents
reuse opportunities since those scripts are created with
only one application in mind and are rarely shared with
other departments or business units. A siloed approach also
introduces potential security and compliance risks because it
provides less oversight and governance to manage and monitor
all business processes.
Highly distributed hybrid environments
Today’s IT environments are highly distributed and consist
of hybrid technologies, including on-premises applications,
private and public clouds, and on-demand virtual machines.
This disparate mix dramatically increases the responsibilities
of IT operations teams who must manage distributed data
systems, new apps and platform services, and ever-expanding
networks. The increasing complexity makes it nearly impossible
for IT teams to monitor environments in real time without the
aid of automation.
Organizational growth increases IT complexity
There is also the issue of adapting IT environments to align with
changing business demands. IT organizations need to stay agile
and flexible, even as those environments grow increasingly
complex and add more work for IT staff. In response, companies
are often forced to increase their headcount to properly
manage their IT environments. Spiceworks’ “2020 State of IT”
report revealed that two of the top three reasons companies
increase their IT budgets are to upgrade outdated infrastructure
or bring more employees on board. Increased headcount
and updated infrastructure don’t necessarily provide the
flexibility IT organizations require to quickly respond to shifting
business needs, however. Without a dramatic move away from
reactive work, IT teams will continue to be overburdened and
overwhelmed by the daily manual tasks that monopolize their
workdays.

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 3Remote workforce support
To further complicate matters, IT departments must account for an increasingly remote workforce in the
aftermath of the COVID-19 pandemic. A May 2020 study conducted by Erik Brynjolfsson, Director of the Stanford
Digital Economy Lab, found that approximately half of all full-time workers employed before the crisis had
shifted to a remote work arrangement. Many industry analysts believe telecommuting will become a regular
fixture of future businesses, even after the novel coronavirus pandemic slips into the history books. Gartner, for
instance, predicts that 48% of full-time employees will work remotely after the COVID-19 crisis ends.
Such disparate working environments, with various networks, systems, devices, and platforms to support will
only add complexity to IT tasks and make it more difficult to work quickly and efficiently.

Mandate to drive innovation and strategic vision
With so many logistical challenges to address, IT leaders have little time to devote to organizational strategy.
Yet, they are increasingly tasked with spearheading innovative projects that support overarching business
strategies. Organizations look to their CIOs and IT department heads to map out technology roadmaps that
incorporate cutting-edge solutions to open new business opportunities. Deloitte expects IT and finance leaders
to closely collaborate on innovative projects over the next 18 to 24 months.
Despite those mandates, IT leaders often lack the time, budget, manpower, or resources to achieve truly
transformational innovation within the organization. Deloitte found that the average IT department devotes
only 18% of its budget to building new business capabilities.
Individually, these obstacles present daunting challenges for IT organizations to overcome. Combined, they
may appear insurmountable. AI and RPA, in particular, present a viable path forward, reducing costs, increasing
efficiencies, and freeing IT workers to address more strategic concerns that deliver the better business
outcomes CIOs are primarily tasked with delivering.

48% 56%
of full-time budget spent by IT
employees will work departments, on
remotely after the average, solely on
COVID-19 crisis ends. maintaining current
– Gartner business processes
– Deloitte

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 4An enterprise-grade RPA platform, Why automate with UiPath
combined with AI, can dramatically
accelerate the response to the growing Automation Platform?
volume of IT service management (ITSM)
requests. A 2019 Service Desk Institute Enterprise-scale RPA can reduce the cost and complexity of day-to-day
survey highlighted the need and value of operations. Better yet, the value of RPA is easily provable without rolling
ITSM automation: the dice on an “all or nothing” upfront investment. With the comprehensive
UiPath Platform, a pilot program consisting of a few key automations can
demonstrate early real-world ROI—and that foundation can quickly be
75% expanded into other areas to deliver the fully automated enterprise.
Optimize available resources and personnel
of service desks The UiPath Platform helps organizations do more with the resources and
listed automation as assets they already have. Most enterprises are riddled with repetitive manual
processes that keep them from running at peak capacity. By automating such
a top priority tasks, the UiPath Platform creates a domino effect that multiplies efficiency
across other processes, operations, and business units.
A transformative shift in IT operations is now possible due to RPA’s extensive
reusability. Centralized Centers of excellence (CoE) provide a framework
to build and share software robots with different departments, teams, and
47% lines of business within the organization. Also, stakeholders can reuse RPA
technology for different applications with minimal changes, increasing the
return on investment and extending RPA’s benefits throughout the enterprise.
The combination of RPA’s increased efficiency, reduced manual work,
were interested in and streamlined workflows enables organizations to manage costs more
effectively. According to Gartner, hyperautomation technologies such as RPA
increasing self-service will enable companies to decrease their operating costs as much as 30% by
capabilities 2024.
Businesses can realize some of the biggest cost savings from the UiPath
Platform by minimizing their reliance on manual processes that require
constant management and oversight from human workers. KPMG estimates
that “extreme automation” can decrease labor needs by 70% in certain
scenarios.
43% Enterprise-scale RPA, such as the UiPath Platform, can also help organizations
control costs by supporting more efficient management of IT resources. For
example, many businesses overspend on their cloud environments, whether
due to overprovisioning resources, forgetting to spin down unused instances,
wanted to improve or running instances around the clock unnecessarily. The Rightscale “2019
their ITSM automation State of the Cloud Report” estimated that organizations waste approximately
tools and find 35% of their cloud spend. By automating cloud workflows, IT organizations
can drastically reduce unnecessary expenditures and increase the ROI of
cloud deployments.
UiPath also lowers operational risks that could derail critical business
processes and increase IT costs. Manual tasks are inherently prone to
error, but robots are highly accurate. They execute tasks consistently and
accurately, minimizing the potential for process-related errors.

5Streamline governance and compliance
requirements
Regulatory compliance regarding data processing, privacy,
security, and management is a growing concern for enterprises
in virtually every market and industry.
With more stringent compliance demands from regulations
such as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Health Insurance Portability
and Accountability Act (HIPAA), and the European Union’s
General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), any opportunity to
simplify compliance is welcome.
Managing automated business processes through a centralized
CoE provides complete transparency into compliance-related
workflows. Companies can easily create a complete audit trail to
demonstrate compliance with any regulatory requirements.
Furthermore, enterprise-scale RPA can significantly reduce the
number of errors made by human operators. Depending on
the extent of digital workforce deployment, an organization
may not face any risk of manual error at all. The organization
eliminates potential security vulnerabilities that might arise
from such mistakes, bolstering its security posture and helping
it stay compliant.
With the right enterprise-grade automation platform, processes
that are required to adhere to regulatory guidelines or business
rules run with improved accuracy. The risk of simple errors or
oversights derailing compliance efforts is minimal.
That same reliability extends to internal reporting mechanisms.
Supported by UiPath Platform solutions, stakeholders can
gather the necessary information, generate comprehensive
reports, and disseminate those documents to the appropriate
parties quicker and easier than before.
Improve security
Data security remains a major concern in every sector, with new
threats emerging every year to infiltrate networks and access
sensitive information. According to the Identity Theft Resource
Center, the number of data breaches increased by 17% in 2019.
In addition, the average cost of data breaches continues to
climb, as do the associated expenses of remediation, regulatory
compliance, and reputational damage.
IBM found that a single data breach costs global businesses an
average of $3.92 million. For US companies, the stakes are even
higher, with the average cost of a data breach totalling nearly
$8.2 million.
Replacing manual IT processes with UiPath-managed tasks
can help improve an organization’s security posture and better
position it to prevent or respond to a costly data breach. As
noted earlier, manual processes are inherently prone to error,
increasing the likelihood of a human operator making a mistake
that could lead to a significant security vulnerability. UiPath
robots are less susceptible to these errors and, as such, help
companies maintain a stable and secure IT footprint.
Many of the compliance benefits of automation apply to
security, as well, including accurate and timely reporting
capabilities and the ability to execute business rules with
precision. While RPA is not a security solution in and of itself, the
resulting reliability and consistency of business processes help
strengthen an organization’s overall security posture. However,
it is essential to choose an RPA platform with centralized
governance and security features to avoid introducing new
potential security issues.

Case Study: Reckitt, a leading global company, home to the world's best loved and trusted
hygiene, health and nutrition brands used UiPath Automation Platform with the key goal to
deliver always-on, always-available IT with the most delightful and futuristic service experience.
In a span of little over a year Reckitt has deployed 80+ robots that has helped them achieve:

20% cost savings in IT 10,000 business hours
Operations served per month

20% net promoter 7 months to recoup their
score increase Automation Factory investment

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 6Enhance the customer experience
Even when using RPA solely for back-office IT processes,
companies can improve the customer experience for end
users and consumers. Staff members have more time to focus
on high-value projects that directly impact the customer
experience, such as improving service delivery, updating
products, and developing new solutions. According to Gartner,
the use of RPA for front-office applications, including customer
experience and sales functions, will increase by 30% by 2023.
Lower operational expenses also lead to reduced prices as
organizations can pass along cost savings to their customers.
In cases where RPA doesn’t impact the customer experience
directly, it may still offer experiential benefits by improving
internal workflows and helping the organization run more
efficiently and cost-effectively.
Given today’s challenging cybersecurity landscape, regulatory
compliance and data security protocols are important
components of the customer experience. By demonstrating
exemplary security protocols supported by RPA, businesses can
show customers that they adhere to the latest best practices
and are taking every measure to protect customers’ data and
privacy. As a result, organizations can build greater trust among
their customers and develop lasting relationships.
The efficiency gains provided by RPA also impact the customer
experience. For example, companies can launch new services
and roll out product updates with shorter development cycles.
In addition, developers have more time to address customer
feedback and incorporate their demands into product releases.
Whether launching new solutions or providing post-release
support, organizations can provide products and services that
exceed customer expectations.
An end-to-end automation suite should integrate RPA with
artificial intelligence and chatbot capabilities to create new
opportunities to engage customers and deliver a better
customer experience. AI-enabled chatbots offer more dynamic
and successful user interactions, accelerating customer
acquisition and boosting customer retention.
Finally, the increased oversight and governance that
enterprise-scale RPA provides make it easier for organizations
to gather data on the customer experience and use those
insights to fuel their customer outreach and engagement
strategies.
Enhance the employee experience
IT teams also stand to benefit immensely from RPA
implementation and expansion, thanks to the dramatic
reduction in onerous, time-consuming work and increased
opportunities to focus on high-value projects. A 2018 Deloitte
global survey found that, on average, RPA programs delivered
20% full-time equivalent capacity within the first 12 months of
implementation.
A UiPath Platform implementation supports self-service
capabilities, allowing dedicated citizen developers and
stakeholders to design, build, and share their own robots.
Employees are empowered to create the automation solutions
that address their unique needs. Many RPA programs combine
top-down and bottom-up deployment models, simultaneously
addressing high-level business challenges and day-to-day
bottlenecks that are a drain on the organization’s productivity.
Giving employees the agency to identify ideal automation
candidates at project launch and later design their own
software robots enables IT staff to determine how RPA can
address the most pressing issues.
Ultimately, eliminating mundane tasks and providing more
time to work on high-value projects can have a profound
impact on employee morale, engagement, and productivity.

80% reduction in average 0% error rate
handling time

Example: A large European bank automated their IT service management and user management processes
using the UiPath Platform—resulting in an 80% reduction in average handling time and a 0% error rate.

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 7Drive innovation throughout the enterprise
When first implementing and piloting RPA, stakeholders
typically focus on automating processes that produce
immediate and high-profile results. After the low-hanging
fruit has been cleared away, teams can explore innovative
applications that can shape the future of the organization. Such
transformative projects are possible with an enterprise-grade
automation platform.
The UiPath Platform incorporates artificial intelligence to
expand the functionality of software robots to manage more
complex processes and dynamically respond to shifting
parameters and requirements.
The various employee experience benefits discussed earlier
support IT staff recruitment and retention, helping IT
leaders recruit the best candidates and keep them with the
organization.
As companies reduce the burden of mundane work on their
IT workforce and provide more freedom to explore RPA
applications, they can attract highly skilled IT professionals who
are innately driven to innovate.
The UiPath Platform can also position CIOs and IT leaders as
strategic business partners who drive innovation throughout
the organization. Automation is now a requirement for more
extensive digital transformation, laying the foundation to
incorporate new technologies and optimize internal processes.
According to The Economist, 69% of C-level executives view
software automation, such as RPA, as a high priority for their
organizational strategy.
RPA can also position CIOs and IT leaders as strategic business
partners who drive innovation throughout the organization.

User Management

Chatbot Self service portal Service desk

User request API API Pooling/trigger
Desktop

Start job / via orchestrator API Add request as
Tablet Add request info to orchestrator queue as new item new queue item

Orchestrator
Start job Trigger on new
Evaluate request type from queue item and start associated job queue item added
Mobile Queres
Robot Triggers
Start job
Add/remove application access
Unlock user account Assets
Reset user’s password

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 8UiPath IT Automation enables Green IT

Many organizations are now planning their digital transformation journey with sustainability in mind. They are exploring new ways
to incorporate green IT into their management strategies through initiatives such as reducing compute power, and automation is
playing a leading role in the effort.  Automation can reduce IT’s carbon footprint by helping complete tasks faster, with less energy
expended. For example, an IT help desk could reduce compute power more than 50% by resolving common requests in minutes
versus hours. Another use case is the automation of the nightly migration of all virtual machines in an on-premises data center onto
one host and powering down the other hosts to reduce the data center’s overall resource consumption.

UiPath automation Center of Excellence (CoE) has adopted the various IT Automation capabilities across the enterprise.
With the virtual machines enrolled for automation, UiPath CoE has achieved:

65% 98% 30%
less cloud compute reduction in compute less compute yearly
yearly usage from yearly usage with AHT usage of IT Ops
running a more for ITSM and cyber Robots through RAS
efficient infrastructure security autoscaling

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 9What can you automate with UiPath?

RPA solutions have countless potential uses in IT environments, given the many repetitive and relatively simple processes
teams must oversee. UiPath is uniquely positioned to help organizations jumpstart their RPA programs, due to its working
relationship with leading IT vendors. These partnerships support seamless integration across the IT ecosystem, including
some of the most widely used software and technology platforms in the world.
The UiPath automation platform goes beyond user interface (UI) automation. It supports a broader vision of holistic
automation, including UI, testing, IT, APIs, business process management, and other built-in integrations running in the
background. The UiPath automation platform offers more than 500 pre-built activities that empower customers to automate
almost every area of their IT ecosystem—cloud-based and on-premises. It supports automation use cases in areas such as user
and infrastructure management, as well as security orchestration and audit functions.

Automate cloud orchestration and management processes
The UiPath automation platform integrates with leading cloud service providers, such as Microsoft Azure, Amazon Web
Services (AWS), and Google Cloud Platform (GCP). It works with public, private, and hybrid cloud environments and
streamlines mission-critical activities such as server deployment, storage, configuration, and management. It also supports
security orchestration automation and response (SOAR) tasks, further bolstering data security efforts.

Automate desktop and app virtualization processes
The out-of-the-box activity packages offered with the UiPath automation platform automate processes related to desktop-
as-a-service (DaaS) and application-as-a-service for provisioning Windows and Linux cloud-based virtual desktops. With
these packages, IT teams can easily automate processes for the provisioning, management, and maintenance of desktop
virtualization services. Tasks that can be automated include provisioning/removing virtual desktops during employee
onboarding/offboarding, as well as managing, modifying, and migrating virtual desktops and creating related reports.

Infrastructure Management

Data center

Public cloud
VDIs Apps Active Exchange Databases File Applications
directory shares

Internet Network
Hypervisor

Storage

API req. API req.

Running job Queues
Triggers
Processes Triggers
Processes
Activities Robot assets login Assets Orchestrator

Out-of-the-box IT automation integrations
Activities / Connectors / APIs / Ui drivers

Powershell, C#, VB, Python MS Hyper-V Citrix VMware Virtual Identity Networking Atlassian SAP
terminal Java XenServer vCenter, ESX machines services
+ more

DBMS Http/ Soap FTP Exchange Citrix Active Storage Databases Security Servicenow Oracle
json, xml Server VDI directory

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 10Automate server virtualization
The seamless integration of the UiPath platform and the
leading hypervisor platforms (VMware, Citrix, Hyper-V) allows IT
departments to accelerate and streamline server virtualization
processes. UiPath offers pre-built templates to provision new
virtual machines with ease. Stakeholders can also manage
their virtual machines with a variety of RPA-enabled functions
that are available out of the box. IT organizations can easily
automate processes for on-demand management and
maintenance of virtual machines. IT teams can also task robots
with managing virtual machine availability cycles (including
VM rebooting, power on/offs, and checkpoint management),
automating those processes, and controlling their associated
costs. UiPath software robots can make critical IT scenarios—
such as provisioning, infrastructure management, green
computing, onboarding new employees, and continuous
integration—much more efficient.
Automation with Microsoft platforms
UiPath robots can operate through integrations built on top
of Microsoft APIs, so companies can seamlessly integrate RPA
with their existing systems and workflows. These extensive
integrations lower the barrier to entry for IT organizations that
are rolling out their first RPA initiatives and reduce setup time for
teams expanding their program to automate new processes. More
than 200 integrations are available for Microsoft technologies and
products, supporting pure IT applications.
DevOps teams can take advantage of UiPath’s direct compatibility
with Azure DevOps Services to manage projects and facilitate
collaboration and communication between developers and
operations teams. RPA applications include automating the
creation of projects and groups and assigning tasks to specific
users and teams.
The Activity Packs for Azure Active Directory (AD) and Microsoft
Active Directory enable an IT organization to easily automate
important operations with Azure AD objects such as users,
groups, lifecycle policies, Office365 licenses, and directory
roles. Complex business processes and repetitive tasks, such as
unlocking user accounts and resetting passwords (triggered by
chatbot, email, or SMS), can be completed by robots.
IT teams can now easily provision and manage user accounts
for Azure Active Directory through access to Microsoft Teams
and Microsoft Office 365. They can set up mailboxes for new
employees in both Exchange and Microsoft Office 365 using fully
automated workflows that require no direct manual intervention.
User management is another area where RPA offers compelling
benefits. Using UiPath Robots, IT organizations can automate
processes across the entire user management workflow, including:
■	Employee onboarding and offboarding
■	Application and Identity Access management
■	Mailbox configuration
■	Manage account access requests
IT leaders can quickly integrate RPA solutions with the processes
listed above and start generating ROI immediately.
10 server migrations per hour
(from 2 hours to under 10 minutes
with 10 robots working in parallel)
Example: A leading Indian bank achieved close to
10 server migrations per hour during a large-scale
migration of servers and data from Windows Server
2008 to Windows Server 2012. Migration time went from
two hours to under 10 minutes with 10 robots working
in parallel and with one or two monitoring the process.

The UiPath Automation Platform seamlessly integrates with most of the industry leading IT platforms, including:

Cloud Data center I TSM Desktop & App Virtualization
Azure VMware Active directory Amazon Web Services Workspaces
Amazon Web Services Citrix Azure Active Directory Azure Virtual Desktop
Google Cloud Platform HyperV Exchange
System Center Office 365
ServiceNow
Atlassian

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 11Automation in action: how IT teams use UiPath

ITSM and user management
User management workflows provide clear examples of how
the UiPath Platform accelerates, streamlines, and improves IT
processes. User management plays a major role in the day-to-day
logistics of supporting IT solutions such as Azure Active Directory.
These processes have become even more complicated in light of
the COVID-19 crisis and the dramatic shift toward remote work
strategies. As more employees work from home and require
remote support from IT staff, user management tasks continue
to grow in both complexity and importance. IT teams need to
provision the technologies necessary for remote work and manage
user access while accounting for numerous variables and external
factors that come with supporting diverse working environments.
The Platform simplifies and streamlines user management
processes, helping IT organizations quickly respond to employee
requests and maintain a stable, secure enterprise environment.
During the onboarding process, for instance, robots can automate
the delivery of digital resources to outfit new hires with everything
they need from day one.
Cybersecurity and access control
Given the current state of cybersecurity around the world and the
clear and immediate danger presented by cybercrime and other
threats, access management is an equally critical component to
enterprise user management.
Using UiPath Robots, IT organizations can automate various
user permissions verification processes, dramatically reducing
the amount of time and energy required to manage these tasks
without compromising enterprise security or data integrity.
Software robots can quickly cross-reference user requests with
permission controls to grant access to authorized users while
revoking access rights to other applications whenever necessary.
It is worth reiterating the cybersecurity benefits that UiPath
Robots offer, especially with regard to access management and
control. UiPath Robots are able to consistently and accurately
enforce password usage and user access policies.
Beyond those tasks, UiPath offers additional security capabilities
out of the box, including software robots that can perform SOAR
measures to remediate security incidents and comply with
security standards such as ISO and SOC.
Cloud management
With the increased adoption of cloud computing and hybrid
technologies, the IT landscape is getting more complex to
manage. With UiPath Automation Platform, IT teams can
streamline mission-critical server deployment, storage,
configuration, and management. Being fully integrated with all
leading cloud service providers, virtual machines can be easily
orchestrated, reducing the compute usage.

Security
Orchestration
(SOAR)

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 12Deploying the UiPath Expand your automation
Automation Platform
our internal CoE for infrastructure
IT Ops was able to
achieve: Once IT organizations have created a solid foundation for their RPA programs, new
opportunities will open up to expand automation and improve various enterprise
processes.
85% IT leaders
workload reduction IT leaders and stakeholders should fully explore these opportunities and look for ways
with CVM and to incorporate RPA into existing workflows
20,000+ brute force Regardless of how mature a company’s RPA program is, there is always room for
attack blocks improvement and expansion.
According to The Economist, although 91% of organizations leverage automation in
98% some capacity, only a little more than half (51%) use it extensively.
IT organizations
reduction in average IT organizations should review existing workflows throughout the enterprise and
handling time of IT identify processes that are ideal candidates for automation
ticketing leading For example, IT teams can incorporate additional robots into the employee
to saving 15% onboarding process to automate the creation of user accounts and employee
workload/year mailboxes.
As stakeholders continue to experiment with RPA, assess their current IT environment,
and build their own custom robots, they will find new avenues to expand IT
capabilities and significantly improve essential business processes. IT leaders should
also collaborate with other business units to develop and support a more holistic
automation strategy for the entire company. IT organizations are ideally situated
to not only pilot new RPA solutions, but to expand them into other corners of the
enterprise since automation is already so pervasive in IT workflows.
A 2019 Economist Intelligence Unit report found that IT surpasses all other business
units in automation penetration, with two-thirds (67%) of respondents stating that
more than half of all of their processes are already automated.

Other departments
As other departments, like finance, human resources, marketing and sales, begin
investigating their own RPA applications, IT organizations can help spearhead those
projects and get them off the ground.
Due to UiPath’s close partnership with industry leading IT vendors, IT teams can take
advantage of seamless integration capabilities across their existing platforms and
applications to expand the reach of RPA as far as they can. Because cloud, server, and
desktop virtualization, software and systems are so prevalent in today’s corporate
world, those platforms are ideal launching pads for RPA implementations that can
later extend into other systems within the organization’s IT ecosystem.

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 13How to get started on IT automation with UiPath

UiPath offers a number of different ways to launch new RPA
programs and introduce robots into additional environments
and workflows. UiPath has more than 500 out-of-the-box
IT focused integrations to help streamline implementation,
produce quick results, and generate undeniable ROI.
UiPath users will also find numerous activities available out of
the box to start building their own custom robots to automate
whatever processes present the clearest and most immediate
ROI. IT organizations can use these free UiPath Activities to
quickly launch RPA projects and tailor their implementations
according to their specific needs.
Exploring the benefits of the UiPath Platform requires very little
upfront investment from businesses that want to test the waters
before fully committing to this technology. The free Community
Edition is a great way for organizations to start their RPA journey,
without devoting a lot of capital to a new technology platform.
UiPath also offers hands-on training and support materials to
educate staff and teach them how to build, design, and deploy
RPA bots of their own. Establishing a team of citizen developers
is an important step toward developing a holistic enterprise-
wide automation strategy, and UiPath provides all the guidance
needed to build a dedicated group of RPA advocates.
IT organizations face a number of seemingly daunting obstacles
and conflicting directives, but RPA, and AI specifically, can help
ease these challenges and reshape IT into a model of operational
efficiency, cost-effectiveness, and business innovation.
Wherever you are on your RPA journey, there are always new
opportunities to expand automation and improve critical
processes.
Try our IT Automation workflows
from our Marketplace

Get started on your automation journey

Talk to a UiPath expert and see how you can get started.

References
1  Deloitte, https://www2.deloitte.com/us/en/insights/focus/tech-trends/2020/future-of-it-and-finance-funding-innovation-at-the-speed-of-agile.
html?id=us:2sm:3ab:di6554:eng:dup:042020:finfutit&pkid=1006938&dysig_tid=ebd24b09d45d4221acd93006bc431fec
2  Spiceworks, https://www.spiceworks.com/marketing/state-of-it/report/
3  Erik Brynjolfsson, https://www.brynjolfsson.com/remotework/
4  Gartner, https://www.gartner.com/smarterwithgartner/9-future-of-work-trends-post- covid-19/
5  RPA Today, https://www.rpatoday.net/news/gartner-predicts-rpa-will-grow-significantly-in-2020-as-part-of-hyperautomation/
6  KPMG Advisory, https://advisory.kpmg.us/articles/2019/extreme-automation.html
7  MarketWatch, https://www.marketwatch.com/story/data-breaches-soared-by-17-in-2019-but-theres-some-good-news-too-2020-01-29
8  IBM, https://www.ibm.com/security/data-breach
9  Gartner, https://www.gartner.com/en/documents/3976135/predicts-2020-rpa-renaissance-driven-by-morphing-offerin
10  Deloitte, https://www2.deloitte.com/bg/en/pages/technology/articles/deloitte-global-rpa-survey-2018.html
11  The Economist, https://automationfirst.economist.com/automation-maturity-infographic/
12  Flexera, https://info.flexera.com/SLO-CM-REPORT-State-of-the-Cloud-2020
13  The Economist, https://automationfirst.economist.com/wp-content/uploads/2019/06/EIU-UiPath-The-advance-of-automation-briefing-paper.pdf
14  Service Desk Institute, https://www.servicedeskinstitute.com/insight-resource/a-view-from-the-frontline-2019/
15  Flexera, https://www.flexera.com/about-us/press-center/rightscale-2019-state-of-the-cloud-report-from-flexera-identifies-cloud-adoption-trends.html
* ivanti.com  // Remote work Survey Report (2020)

UIPATH.COM  |  IT’S TIME TO AUTOMATE YOUR IT INFRASTRUCTURE 14